update fetch guide (#34278)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/fetch_api/using_fetch/index.md

{{DefaultAPISidebar("Fetch API")}}

The [Fetch API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) provides a JavaScript interface for accessing and manipulating parts of the [protocol](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Protocol), such as requests and responses. It also provides a global {{domxref("fetch()")}} method that provides an easy, logical way to fetch resources asynchronously across the network.
The [Fetch API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) provides a JavaScript interface for making HTTP requests and processing the responses.

> Unlike {{domxref("XMLHttpRequest")}} that is a callback-based API, Fetch is promise-based and provides a better alternative that can be easily used in [service workers](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API). Fetch also integrates advanced HTTP concepts such as [CORS](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) and other extensions to HTTP.

Reviewer: I feel like we should give `XMLHttpRequest` _some_ attribution, because people naturally would want to compare them (you still encounter tutorials that use XHR every other day). This paragraph seems fine to me.

Author: Added back a slightly different version of this in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/34278/commits/d111ac81e7d64f6148a6eaf3ddd305434858a95e (I didn't particularly like the unsupported "better alternative" judgement).

In the rest of this page we'll look in more detail at the different stages of this process.

## Making a request

To make a request, call `fetch()`, passing in:

1. a definition of the resource to fetch. This can be any one of:
   - a string containing the URL
   - an object, such an instance of {{domxref("URL")}}, which has a {{glossary("stringifier")}} that produces a string containing the URL
   - a {{domxref("Request")}} instance
2. optionally, an object containing options to configure the request.

In this section we'll look at some of the most commonly-used options. To read about all the options that can be given, see the [`fetch()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch) reference page.

### Setting the method

By default, `fetch()` makes a {{httpmethod("GET")}} request, but you can use the `method` option to use a different [request method](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods):

```js
const response = await fetch("https://example.org/post", {
  method: "POST",
  // ...
});
```

If the `mode` option is set to `no-cors`, then `method` must be one of `GET`, `POST` or `HEAD`.

### Setting a body

> The request body is the payload of the request: it's the thing the client is sending to the server. You won't include a body with `GET` requests, but you will include it in requests that send content to the server, such as {{httpmethod("POST")}} or {{httpmethod("PUT")}} requests. For example, if you want to upload a file to the server, you might make a `POST` request and include the file as the request body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The request body is the payload of the request: it's the thing the client is sending to the server. You cannot include a body with `GET` requests, but it's useful for requests that send content to the server, such as {{httpmethod("POST")}} or {{httpmethod("PUT")}} requests. For example, if you want to upload a file to the server, you might make a `POST` request and include the file as the request body.
```

("Cannot" is the important bit here)

  - if the request is a [simple request](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS#simple_requests), then the request will always be sent, but the server must respond with the correct {{httpheader("Access-Control-Allow-Origin")}} header or the browser will not share the response with the caller.
  - if the request is not a simple request, then the browser will send a [preflighted request](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS#preflighted_requests) to check that the server understands CORS and allows the request, and the real request will not be sent unless the server responds to the preflighted request with the appropriate CORS headers.

- Setting `mode` to `same-origin` disallows cross-origin requests completely.

- Setting `mode` to `no-cors` means the request must be a simple request, which restricts the headers that may be set, and restricts methods to `GET`, `HEAD`, and `POST`.

### Including credentials

Credentials are cookies, {{glossary("TLS")}} client certificates, or authentication headers containing a username and password.

To control whether or not the browser sends credentials, set the `credentials` option, which can take one of the following three values:

> - `omit`: never send credentials or include credentials in the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `omit`: never send credentials in the request and ignore credentials in the response.
```

(I was reading it as "send credentials in the response" and got confused, or maybe you really just meant "in the request", not sure)

Author: "ignore" feels a little vague to me, could we say:

```suggestion
- `omit`: never send credentials in the request or include credentials in the response.
```
?

Reviewer: Sure, sounds good

{{DefaultAPISidebar("Fetch API")}}

The [Fetch API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) provides a JavaScript interface for making HTTP requests and processing the responses.

> Fetch is the modern replacement {{domxref("XMLHttpRequest")}}: unlike `XMLHttpRequest`, which uses callbacks, Fetch is promise-based and is integrated with features of the modern web such as [service workers](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API) and [Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fetch is the modern replacement for {{domxref("XMLHttpRequest")}}: unlike `XMLHttpRequest`, which uses callbacks, Fetch is promise-based and is integrated with features of the modern web such as [service workers](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API) and [Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS).
```

- Setting `mode` to `same-origin` disallows cross-origin requests completely.

- Setting `mode` to `no-cors` means the request must be a simple request, which restricts the headers that may be set, and restricts methods to `GET`, `HEAD`, and `POST`.

### Including credentials

Credentials are cookies, {{glossary("TLS")}} client certificates, or authentication headers containing a username and password.

To control whether or not the browser sends credentials, set the `credentials` option, which can take one of the following three values:

- `omit`: never send credentials in the request or include credentials in the response.
- `same-origin` (the default): only send and include credentials for same-origin requests.
- `include`: always include credentials, even cross-origin.

Note that if a cookie's [`SameSite`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie#samesitesamesite-value) attribute is set to `Strict` or `Lax`, then the cookie will not be sent cross-site, even if `credentials` is set to `include`.

> Including credentials in cross-origin requests can make a site vulnerable to {{glossary("CSRF")}} attacks, so even if `credentials` is set to `include`, the server must also agree to their inclusion by including the {{httpheader("Access-Control-Allow-Credentials")}} in its response. Additionally, in this situation the server must explicitly specify the client's origin in the {{httpheader("Access-Control-Allow-Origin")}} response header (that is, `*` is not allowed).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Including credentials in cross-origin requests can make a site vulnerable to {{glossary("CSRF")}} attacks, so even if `credentials` is set to `include`, the server must also agree to their inclusion by including the {{httpheader("Access-Control-Allow-Credentials")}} header in its response. Additionally, in this situation the server must explicitly specify the client's origin in the {{httpheader("Access-Control-Allow-Origin")}} response header (that is, `*` is not allowed).
```

### Processing a text file line by line

In the example below, we fetch a text resource and process it line by line, using a regular expression to look for line endings. For simplicity, we assume the text is UTF-8, and don't handle fetch errors:

```js
async function* makeTextFileLineIterator(fileURL) {
  const response = await fetch(fileURL);
  const reader = response.body.pipeThrough(new TextDecoderStream()).getReader();

  let { value: chunk, done: readerDone } = await reader.read();
  chunk = chunk || "";

  const newline = /\r?\n/gm;
  let startIndex = 0;
  let result;

  while (true) {
    const result = newline.exec(chunk);
    if (!result) {
      if (readerDone) break;
      const remainder = chunk.substr(startIndex);
      ({ value: chunk, done: readerDone } = await reader.read());
      chunk = remainder + (chunk || "");
      startIndex = newline.lastIndex = 0;
      continue;
    }
    yield chunk.substring(startIndex, result.index);
    startIndex = newline.lastIndex;
  }

  if (startIndex < chunk.length) {
    // Last line didn't end in a newline char

>     yield chunk.substr(startIndex);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    yield chunk.substring(startIndex);
```
